# Temperature-Monitoring-System
INTRODUCTION

Heating  and  ventilation  systems  play  a  vital  role  in  providing  a  comfortable,  practical  and  healthy  environment  in  our  workplaces and homes.
The provision of adequate heating and ventilation is becoming increasingly important in industry,homes particularly in office buildings with high  employee densities.
This is  not only a key issue in providing work conditions that ensure employee  satisfaction and hence  increased  productivity. 
Subsequently, fire,  health and safety regulations are provided. In tropical area such as Nigeria, temperature control is critical in a server  room, hence, air  ventilation  systems   are  usually   implemented  for   maintaining  satisfactory  comfort  conditions  by  keeping  the  temperature of the server within a certain range. The  energy  consumption  as  well  as  indoor  comfort  aspects  of  ventilated  systems  is  highly  dependent  on  the  design,  performance  and  control  of  the  system  and  equipment .  To  accurately  control  process  temperature  without    extensive    operator  involvement,   a   temperature   control   system   relies   upon   a   controller,   which  accepts    a  temperature  sensor  such  as  a  thermocouple as input. It compares the actual temperature to the desired control temperature, or set point, and provides an output to a control element .  Temperature  control will  reduce  the  equipment  damage for  computer  devices  as  a result  of excessive  temperature.  Due  to  the  process  of  sending  and  receiving  data  there  must  be  a transmitter and receiver to complete the task. When the temperature sensor takes the temperature of the room ,it sends the recorded value to the mcu which acts as a communication interface. From here when the recorded value is below the threshold, the heater turns on and when the temperature is above the threshold the air-conditioner or cooler turns on. The home gateway connects the temperature monitor, mobile,mcu by which we can adjust the threshold temperature for the specific room environment.

The simulation results show that smart components are connected to the home gateway and can be easily operated, monitored, and automated according to the requirements
